Grafana
Grafana is an open-source solution for running data analytics with the help of 
metrics that give us an insight into the complex infrastructure and massive amount 
of data that our services deal with, with the help of customizable dashboards.

Expreince in grafana:
In our project, I used Grafana for monitoring my application infrastructure. It 
helped me track metrics like the percentage of errors popping up, server uptime, etc.
The app instances were deployed as Docker containers managed by docker swarm. There 
were times when the instances were down or a critical issue caused the system to 
crash. All of these scenarios were tracked on the Grafana dashboard, which made my 
life a lot easier.
The data was pulled from Prometheus which was plugged into the Grafana dashboard as 
a data source. Queries were fired from the dashboard with different expressions such
 as min, avg etc. And Prometheus pulled data from cAdvisor. Here is the 
 architectural flow.
 
Grafana features:
Key features
Panels: visualize your data any way you want using histograms, graphs, geomaps, 
heatmaps, etc.
Plugins: Render your data in real time on a user-friendly API via panel plugins that
 hook into existing data sources—no data migration required. You can also create 
 data source plugins, retrieving metrics from any custom API.
Alerts: One user interface lets you create, consolidate, and control all your alerts.
Transformations: Rename, summarize, combine, and perform calculations across data 
sources and queries.
Annotations: Use rich events from different data sources to annotate graphs.
Panel Editor: A consistent user interface for configuring and customizing your 
panels. 

Why use Kubernetes Monitoring in Grafana Cloud?
Accelerate time to value:
Reduce deployment, setup, and troubleshooting time with this ready-to-use monitoring
tool that only requires running a few CLI commands
Identify root causes faster:
Drill down through your infrastructure with the cluster navigation view to identify 
and resolve issues, without the hassle of switching between different windows and 
monitoring tools.
Reduce costs::
Efficiency and cost monitoring visualizations deliver comprehensive insights into 
your spending, enabling data-driven decisions about resource allocation, scaling 
strategies, and tech investments.